<pre>
  OBIP: 1
  Title: OBIP Purpose and Guidelines
  Author: Tyler Smith <tyler@ob1.io>
  Status: Accepted
  Type: Process
  Created: 2016-08-16
</pre>

==What is an OBIP?==

OBIP stands for OpenBazaar Improvement Proposal. An OBIP is a design document providing information to the OpenBazaar community, or describing a new feature for OpenBazaar or its processes or environment. The OBIP should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature.

We intend OBIPs to be the primary mechanisms for proposing new features, for collecting community input on an issue, and for documenting the design decisions that have gone into OpenBazaar. The OBIP author is responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting dissenting opinions.

Because the OBIPs are maintained as text files in a versioned repository, their revision history is the historical record of the feature proposal.

==OBIP Types==

There are three kinds of OBIP:

* A Standards Track OBIP describes any change that affects most or all OpenBazaar implementations, such as a change to the network protocol or contract structure, or any change or addition that affects the interoperability of applications using OpenBazaar.
* An Informational OBIP describes a OpenBazaar design issue, or provides general guidelines or information to the OpenBazaar community, but does not propose a new feature. Informational OBIPs do not necessarily represent a OpenBazaar community consensus or recommendation, so users and implementors are free to ignore Informational OBIPs or follow their advice.
* A Process OBIP describes a process surrounding OpenBazaar, or proposes a change to (or an event in) a process. Process OBIPs are like Standards Track OBIPs but apply to areas other than the OpenBazaar protocol itself. They may propose an implementation, but not to OpenBazaar's codebase; they often require community consensus; unlike Informational OBIPs, they are more than recommendations, and users are typically not free to ignore them. Examples include procedures, guidelines, changes to the decision-making process, and changes to the tools or environment used in OpenBazaar development. Any meta-OBIP is also considered a Process OBIP.

==OBIP Work Flow==

The OBIP process begins with a new idea for OpenBazaar. Each potential OBIP must have a champion -- someone who writes the OBIP using the style and format described below, shepherds the discussions in the appropriate forums, and attempts to build community consensus around the idea. The OBIP champion (a.k.a. Author) should first attempt to ascertain whether the idea is OBIP-able. Posting to the [https://slack.openbazaar.org/ Slack] or [https://www.reddit.com/r/OpenBazaar/ Reddit] is the best way to go about this.

Vetting an idea publicly before going as far as writing a OBIP is meant to save both the potential author and the wider community time. Many ideas have been brought forward for changing OpenBazaar that have been rejected for various reasons. Asking the OpenBazaar community first if an idea is original helps prevent too much time being spent on something that is guaranteed to be rejected based on prior discussions (searching the internet does not always do the trick). It also helps to make sure the idea is applicable to the entire community and not just the author. Just because an idea sounds good to the author does not mean it will work for most people in most areas where OpenBazaar is used. Small enhancements or patches often don't need standardization between multiple projects; these don't need a OBIP and should be injected into the relevant OpenBazaar development work flow with a patch submission to the applicable OpenBazaar issue tracker.

Once the champion has asked the OpenBazaar community as to whether an idea has any chance of acceptance, a draft OBIP should be presented to the [https://slack.openbazaar.org/ Slack] or [https://www.reddit.com/r/OpenBazaar/ Reddit]. This gives the author a chance to flesh out the draft OBIP to make it properly formatted, of high quality, and to address additional concerns about the proposal. Following a discussion, the proposal should be sent to the OBIP editor with the draft OBIP. This draft must be written in OBIP style as described below, else it will be sent back without further regard until proper formatting rules are followed.

OBIP authors are responsible for collecting community feedback on both the initial idea and the OBIP before submitting it for review.

It is highly recommended that a single OBIP contain a single key proposal or new idea. The more focused the OBIP, the more successful it tends to be. If in doubt, split your OBIP into several well-focused ones.

The OBIP editors assign OBIP numbers and change their status. Please send all OBIP-related email to the OBIP editor, which is listed under [[#OBIP_Editors|OBIP Editors]] below. Also see [[#OBIP_Editor_Responsibilities__Workflow|OBIP Editor Responsibilities & Workflow]]. The OBIP editor reserves the right to reject OBIP proposals if they appear too unfocused or too broad.

Authors MUST NOT self assign OBIP numbers, but should use an alias such as "obip-johndoe-dht-on-ipfs" which includes the author's name/nick and the OBIP subject.

If the OBIP editor approves, he will assign the OBIP a number, label it as Standards Track, Informational, or Process, give it status "Draft", and add it to the OBIPs git repository. The OBIP editor will not unreasonably deny a OBIP. Reasons for denying OBIP status include duplication of effort, disregard for formatting rules, being too unfocused or too broad, being technically unsound, not providing proper motivation or addressing backwards compatibility, or not in keeping with the OpenBazaar philosophy. For a OBIP to be accepted it must meet certain minimum criteria. It must be a clear and complete description of the proposed enhancement. The enhancement must represent a net improvement. The proposed implementation, if applicable, must be solid and must not complicate the protocol unduly.

The OBIP author may update the Draft as necessary in the git repository. Updates to drafts may also be submitted by the author as pull requests.

Standards Track OBIPs consist of two parts, a design document and a reference implementation. The OBIP should be reviewed and accepted before a reference implementation is begun, unless a reference implementation will aid people in studying the OBIP. Standards Track OBIPs must include an implementation -- in the form of code, a patch, or a URL to same -- before it can be considered Final.

Once a OBIP has been accepted, the reference implementation must be completed. When the reference implementation is complete and accepted by the community, the status will be changed to "Final".

A OBIP can also be assigned status "Deferred". The OBIP author or editor can assign the OBIP this status when no progress is being made on the OBIP. Once a OBIP is deferred, the OBIP editor can re-assign it to draft status.

A OBIP can also be "Rejected". Perhaps after all is said and done it was not a good idea. It is still important to have a record of this fact.

OBIPs can also be superseded by a different OBIP, rendering the original obsolete. This is intended for Informational OBIPs, where version 2 of an API can replace version 1.

Some Informational and Process OBIPs may also have a status of "Active" if they are never meant to be completed. E.g. OBIP 1 (this OBIP).

==What belongs in a successful OBIP?==

Each OBIP should have the following parts:

* Preamble -- RFC 822 style headers containing meta-data about the OBIP, including the OBIP number, a short descriptive title, the names, and optionally the contact info for each author, etc.

* Abstract -- a short (~200 word) description of the technical issue being addressed.

* Copyright/public domain -- Each OBIP must either be explicitly labelled as placed in the public domain (see this OBIP as an example) or licensed under the Open Publication License.

* Specification -- The technical specification should describe the syntax and semantics of any new feature. The specification should be detailed enough to allow competing, interoperable implementations to exist.

* Motivation -- The motivation is critical for OBIPs that want to change the OpenBazaar protocol. It should clearly explain why the existing protocol specification is inadequate to address the problem that the OBIP solves. OBIP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.

* Rationale -- The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages.

* The rationale should provide evidence of consensus within the community and discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.

* Backwards Compatibility -- All OBIPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The OBIP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. OBIP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

* Reference Implementation -- The reference implementation must be completed before any OBIP is given status "Final", but it need not be completed before the OBIP is accepted. It is better to finish the specification and rationale first and reach consensus on it before writing code.

* The final implementation must include test code and documentation appropriate for the OpenBazaar protocol.

==OBIP Formats and Templates==

OBIPs should be written in mediawiki or markdown format.

===OBIP Header Preamble===

Each OBIP must begin with an RFC 822 style header preamble. The headers must appear in the following order. Headers marked with "*" are optional and are described below. All other headers are required.

<pre>
  OBIP: <OBIP number>
  Title: <OBIP title>
  Author: <list of authors' real names and optionally, email addrs>
* Discussions-To: <email address>
  Status: <Draft | Active | Accepted | Deferred | Rejected |
           Withdrawn | Final | Superseded>
  Type: <Standards Track | Informational | Process>
  Created: <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
* Post-History: <dates of postings to reddit or Slack>
* Replaces: <OBIP number>
* Superseded-By: <OBIP number>
</pre>

The Author header lists the names, and optionally the email addresses of all the authors/owners of the OBIP. The format of the Author header value must be

  Random J. User <address@dom.ain>

if the email address is included, and just

  Random J. User

if the address is not given.

If there are multiple authors, each should be on a separate line following RFC 2822 continuation line conventions.

While a OBIP is in private discussions (usually during the initial Draft phase), a Discussions-To header will indicate the mailing list or URL where the OBIP is being discussed. No Discussions-To header is necessary if the OBIP is being discussed privately with the author, or on the OpenBazaar Slack.

The Type header specifies the type of OBIP: Standards Track, Informational, or Process.

The Created header records the date that the OBIP was assigned a number, while Post-History is used to record the dates of when new versions of the OBIP are released. Both headers should be in yyyy-mm-dd format, e.g. 2001-08-14.

OBIPs may have a Requires header, indicating the OBIP numbers that this OBIP depends on.

OBIPs may also have a Superseded-By header indicating that a OBIP has been rendered obsolete by a later document; the value is the number of the OBIP that replaces the current document. The newer OBIP must have a Replaces header containing the number of the OBIP that it rendered obsolete.

===Auxiliary Files===

OBIPs may include auxiliary files such as diagrams. Image files should be included in a subdirectory for that OBIP. Auxiliary files must be named OBIP-XXXX-Y.ext, where "XXXX" is the OBIP number, "Y" is a serial number (starting at 1), and "ext" is replaced by the actual file extension (e.g. "png").

==Transferring OBIP Ownership==

It occasionally becomes necessary to transfer ownership of OBIPs to a new champion. In general, we'd like to retain the original author as a co-author of the transferred OBIP, but that's really up to the original author. A good reason to transfer ownership is because the original author no longer has the time or interest in updating it or following through with the OBIP process, or has fallen off the face of the 'net (i.e. is unreachable or not responding to email). A bad reason to transfer ownership is because you don't agree with the direction of the OBIP. We try to build consensus around a OBIP, but if that's not possible, you can always submit a competing OBIP.

If you are interested in assuming ownership of a OBIP, send a message asking to take over, addressed to both the original author and the OBIP editor. If the original author doesn't respond to email in a timely manner, the OBIP editor will make a unilateral decision (it's not like such decisions can't be reversed :).

==OBIP Maintenance==

In general, Standards track OBIPs are no longer modified after they have reached the Final state.

Informational and Process OBIPs may be updated over time to reflect changes to development practices and other details. The precise process followed in these cases will depend on the nature and purpose of the OBIP being updated.

==OBIP Editors==

The current OBIP editor is Tyler Smith who can be contacted at [[mailto:tyler+obip@ob1.io|tyler+obip@ob1.io]].

==OBIP Editor Responsibilities & Workflow==

The OBIP editor monitors to the OpenBazaar OBIP Slack and Reddit.

For each new OBIP that comes in an editor does the following:

* Read the OBIP to check if it is ready: sound and complete. The ideas must make technical sense, even if they don't seem likely to be accepted.
* The title should accurately describe the content.
* Edit the OBIP for language (spelling, grammar, sentence structure, etc.), markup (for reST OBIPs), code style (examples should match OBIP 8 & 7).

If the OBIP isn't ready, the editor will send it back to the author for revision, with specific instructions.

Once the OBIP is ready for the repository it should be submitted as a "pull request" to the [https://github.com/OpenBazaar/obips OpenBazaar/obips] repository on GitHub where it may get further feedback.

The OBIP editor will:

* Assign a OBIP number (almost always just the next available number, but sometimes it's a special/joke number, like 666 or 3141) in the pull request comments.

* Merge the pull request when the author is ready (allowing some time for further peer review).

* List the OBIP in [[README.mediawiki]]

* Send email back to the OBIP author with next steps.

The OBIP editors are intended to fulfill administrative and editorial responsibilities. The OBIP editors monitor OBIP changes, and correct any structure, grammar, spelling, or markup mistakes we see.

==History==

This document was derived heavily from Bitcoin's BIP-0001 which itself is heavily based on Python's PEP-0001. In many places text was simply copied and modified. Although the BIP-0001 was written by Amir Taaki and the PEP-0001 text was written by Barry Warsaw, Jeremy Hylton, and David Goodger, they are not responsible for its use in the OpenBazaar Improvement Process, and should not be bothered with technical questions specific to OpenBazaar or the OBIP process. Please direct all comments to the OBIP editors or the OpenBazaar Slack.
